Add glossary of common terms (#204)
filecoin-project/filecoin-docs: docs/reference/glossary.md

## Block

In a blockchain, a _block_ is the fundamental unit of record. Each block is cryptographically linked to one or more previous blocks. Blocks typically contain [messages](#message) relating changes to some state (for example, financial records) tracked by the blockchain.

## Blockchain

Fundamentally, a _blockchain_ is a system of record in which new records, or [blocks](#block) are cryptographically linked to preceding records. This construction is a foundational component of secure, verifiable, and distributed transaction ledgers.

## Block height

The _height_ of a [block](#block) corresponds to the number of [epochs](#epoch) elapsed before the block was added to the blockchain. The height of the Filecoin [blockchain](#blockchain) is defined to be the maximum height of any block in the blockchain.

## Capacity commitment

If a storage miner doesn't find any available deal proposals appealing, they can alternatively make a _capacity commitment_, filling a [sector](#sector) with arbitrary data, rather than with client data. Maintaining this sector allows the storage miner to provably demonstrate that they are reserving space on behalf of the network.

## Collateral

> In order to enter into a [storage deal](#deal), a [storage miner](#storage-miner) is required to provide filecoin as _collateral_, to be paid out as compensation to a client in the event that the miner fails to uphold their storage commitment.

Reviewer: FIlecoin needs a capital ":D

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to enter into a [storage deal](#deal), a [storage miner](#storage-miner) is required to provide Filecoin as _collateral_, to be paid out as compensation to a client in the event that the miner fails to uphold their storage commitment.
```

## Deal

> Two participants in the Filecoin network can enter into a _deal_ in which one party contracts the services of the other. The Filecoin specification currently details _storage deals_ (in which one party agrees to store data for the other for a specified length of time) and _retrieval deals_ (in which one party agrees to transmit a particular file to the other).

Reviewer 3: would say data here instead of file

Author: Great catch, thanks!

## Election

Every [epoch](#epoch), a small subset of Filecoin [storage miners](#storage-miner) are _elected_ to mine a new [block](#block) for the Filecoin blockchain. A miner's probability of being elected is roughly proportional to the share of the Filecoin network's total storage capacity that they contribute.

## Epoch

> Time in the Filecoin blockchain is discretized into _epochs_ that are currently twenty-five seconds in length. Each epoch, a subset of storage miners are elected to each add a new block to the Filecoin blockchain via [Winning Proof-of-Spacetime](#winning-proof-of-spacetime-winningpost).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Time in the Filecoin blockchain is discretized into _epochs_ that are currently twenty-five seconds in length. Every epoch, a subset of storage miners are elected to each add a new block to the Filecoin blockchain via [Winning Proof-of-Spacetime](#winning-proof-of-spacetime-winningpost).
```

Author: For what it's worth, per https://www.grammarly.com/blog/everyday-every-day/, I believe both are correct. That said, I have no problem whatsoever changing it.

## FIL

> _FIL_ is the filecoin unit symbol; it is alternatively denoted by the Unicode symbol for an integral with a double stroke (⨎).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`FIL` is the Filecoin unit symbol; it is alternatively denoted by the Unicode symbol for an _integral_ with a double stroke (⨎).
```

Author: Pardon, but why emphasize "integral" here? No problem changing, just curious.

## Faucet

> A _faucet_ is a service that provides free filecoin. Typically, facuets are run for the benefit of new users in a network, providing them with the necessary seed capital to begin making transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _faucet_ is a service that provides free Filecoin. Typically, faucets are run for the benefit of new users in a network, providing them with the necessary seed capital to begin making transactions.
```

## Fault

> When a [storage miner](#storage-miner) fails to complete [Window Proof-of-Spacetime](#window-proof-of-spacetime-windowpost) for a given sector, the Filecoin network registers a _fault_ for that sector, and the miner is [_slashed_](#slash). Storage miners must work to resolve faults quickly, lest they be considered to have abandoned their commitment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a [storage miner](#storage-miner) fails to complete [Window Proof-of-Spacetime](#window-proof-of-spacetime-windowpost) for a given sector, the Filecoin network registers a _fault_ for that sector, and the miner is [_slashed_](#slash). If a storage miner does not resolve the fault quickly, the network assumes they have abandoned their commitment.
```

## Filecoin

> The term _Filecoin_, in the sense of a proper noun, is used generically to refer to the Filecoin project, network, broader ecosystem and community. As a common noun, the singular form, filecoin, is used to denote amounts of Filecoin currency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The term _Filecoin_, in the sense of a proper noun, is used generically to refer to the Filecoin project, network, broader ecosystem, and community. As a common noun, the singular form, Filecoin, is used to denote amounts of Filecoin currency.
```

Author: @johnnymatthews  @har00ga 

No problem changing it (indeed, have already accepted a couple of such changes). That said, this contradicts the usual meaning of "common noun", and I thought I'd check one more time just to make sure. For reference, [Bitcoin uses bitcoin](https://bitcoin.org/en/vocabulary#bitcoin)(lowercase) to disambiguate between the project/community and the unit, and it looks like Ethereum [uses ether similarly](https://eth.wiki/en/faqs/glossary). Does the Filecoin project have an official stated preference here?

## Gas

_Gas_ is a transaction fee associated with a [message](#message), paid to the creator of a [block](#block) in return for including the message in the block.

## Mainnet

A portmanteau of "main" and "network, _mainnet_ is a term used to refer to the predominant public-facing network of the Filecoin project and community. The mainnet embodies an expectation of widespread adoption and permanence; changes to its protocol are subject to the adoption of the network participants.

> Note: if as a proper noun, capitalize the term. For example, "I am mining on Mainnet."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If used as a proper noun, capitalize the term: _"I am mining on Mainnet."_
```

## Message

The term _message_ is used to refer to data stored as part of a [block](#block). A block can contain several messages.

## Miner

> The Filecoin project uses the term _miner_ to refer to participant in the network providing a service of value to a client. At present, the Filecoin specification recognizes two miner types: [storage miners](#storage-miner) and [retrieval miners](#retrieval-miner).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Filecoin project uses the term _miner_ to refer to participants in the network who provide a service of value to a client. At present, the Filecoin specification recognizes two miner types: [storage miners](#storage-miner) and [retrieval miners](#retrieval-miner).
```

## Proof-of-Replication (PoRep)

_Proof-of-Replication_ is a procedure by which a [storage miner](#storage-miner) can prove to the Filecoin network that they have created a unique copy of some piece of data on the network's behalf.

## Proof-of-Spacetime (PoSt)

_Proof-of-Spacetime_ is a procedure by which a [storage-miner](#storage-miner) can prove to the Filecoin network they continue to store a unique copy of some data on behalf of the network. Proof-of-Spacetime manifests in two distinct varieties in the present Filecoin specification: [Window Proof-of-Spacetime](#window-proof-of-spacetime-windowpost) and [Winning Proof-of-Spacetime](#winning-proof-of-spacetime-winningpost).

## Quality-adjusted storage power

The storage power a [storage miner](#storage-miner) earns from a storage deal offered by a [verified client](#verified-client) will be augmented by a multiplier. Power totals that take into account this multiplier are termed _quality adjusted_.

## Retrieval miner

> A _retrieval miner_ is a Filecoin participant that enters retrieval [deals](#deal) with clients, agreeing to supply a client with a particular file in exchange for filecoin.  Note that unlike [storage miners](#storage-miner), retrieval miners are not additionally rewarded with the ability to add blocks to the Filecoin blockchain; their only reward is the fee they extract from the client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _retrieval miner_ is a Filecoin participant that enters retrieval [deals](#deal) with clients, agreeing to supply a client with a particular file in exchange for Filecoin.  Note that unlike [storage miners](#storage-miner), retrieval miners are not additionally rewarded with the ability to add blocks to the Filecoin blockchain; their only reward is the fee they extract from the client.
```

## Seal

_Sealing_ is one of the fundamental building blocks of the Filecoin protocol. It is a computation-intensive process performed over a [sector](#sector) that results in a unique representation of the sector. The properties of this new representation are essential to the [Proof-of-Replication](#proof-of-replication-porep) and the [Proof-of-Spacetime](#proof-of-spacetime-post) procedures.

## Sector

> Storage miners store data on behalf of the Filecoin network in fixed-size blocks of data called _sectors_. Currently, only 32GiB and 64GiB sectors are supported.

Reviewer 3: > Currently, only 32GiB and 64GiB sectors are supported.

Smaller sectors (512MiB) are also supported in various devnets for faster testing & development. Here, I would either clarify that this is for Testnet only, or avoid size mentions here altogether.

Author: I took your advice and removed the mention altogether- after thinking about it, size mentions don't really help one understand what a sector is, and that information is easily discoverable when it is actually needed.

## Slash

> When a [fault](#fault) is registered for a [sector](#sector), the Filecoin network will _slash_ the [storage miner](#storage-miner) that is supposed to be storing the sector; that is, it will assess penalties to the miner (to be paid out of the [collateral](#collateral) fronted by te miner) for their failure to uphold their pledge of storage. When slashing takes place, the power a miner earns for the associated sector is subtracted from the miner's total power for the purposes of [election](#election).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a [fault](#fault) is registered for a [sector](#sector), the Filecoin network will _slash_ the [storage miner](#storage-miner) that is supposed to be storing the sector; that is, it will assess penalties to the miner (to be paid out of the [collateral](#collateral) fronted by the miner) for their failure to uphold their pledge of storage. When slashing takes place, the power a miner earns for the associated sector is subtracted from the miner's total power for the purposes of [election](#election).
```

## Storage miner

> A _storage miner_ is a Filecoin participant that stores data on behalf of the network. Storage miners are rewarded for this service through payments by clients that contract their services, as well as by periodic authorization to extend the Filecoin [blockchain](#blockchain) with [blocks](#block) of their own creation. When they create a block, storage miners are rewarded with newly minted filecoin, and by the transaction fees they can levy on other participants seeking to include [messages](#message) in the block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _storage miner_ is a Filecoin participant that stores data on behalf of the network. Storage miners are rewarded for this service through payments by clients that contract their services, as well as by periodic authorization to extend the Filecoin [blockchain](#blockchain) with [blocks](#block) of their own creation. When they create a block, storage miners are rewarded with newly minted Filecoin, as well as the transaction fees they can levy on other participants seeking to include [messages](#message) in the block.
```

## Zero-knowledge succinct non-interactive argument of knowledge (zk-SNARK)

An _argument of knowledge_ is a construction by which one party, called the _prover_, can convince another, the _verifier_, that the prover has access to some piece of information. There are several possible constraints on such constructions:

- A _non-interactive_ argument of knowledge has the requirement that just a single message, sent from the prover to the verifier, should serve as a sufficient argument.

- A _zero-knowledge_ argument of knowledge has the requirement that the verifier should not need access to the knowledge the prover has access to in order to verify the prover's claim.

- A _succinct_ argument of knowledge is one that can be "quickly" verified, and which is "small", for appropriate definitions of both of those terms.

> A zero-knowledge, succinct non-interactive argument of knowledge (zk-SNARK) embodies all of these properties. Filecoin utilizes these constructions to enable its distributed network to efficiently verify that [storage miners](#storage-miner) are storing files they pledged to store, without requiring the verifiers to maintain copies of these files themselves.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A zero-knowledge, succinct non-interactive argument of knowledge (zk-SNARK) embodies all of these properties. Filecoin utilizes these constructions to enable it's distributed network to efficiently verify that [storage miners](#storage-miner) are storing files they pledged to store, without requiring the verifiers to maintain copies of these files themselves.
```

Author: Pardon, but I don't believe this change would be correct per conventional English grammar rules.

> ## Testnet

Reviewer 3: Perhaps link to https://docs.filecoin.io/how-to/networks/#testnet somewhere in this definition.

Author: Good call! Made the definition more concise and deferred to that page.

A portmanteau of "test" and "network, _testnet_ is a term used to refer to Filecoin networks that are set up for the purposes of development, experimentation, and assessment.

Note: if used as a proper noun, capitalize the term. For example, "I am mining on Testnet."

## Tipset

> Filecoin utilizes a novel [blockchain](#blockchain) variant called a [_tipset_](https://filecoin.io/blog/tipsets-family-based-approach-to-consensus/). Tipsets are less strict chains than directed, acyclic graphs; this construction allows multiple blocks to be mined at the same [height](#block-height).

Reviewer 3: Would be nice to mention how these groups/families are processed here, ie some mention of weighting and why this is more efficient.

Author: Added a lengthier discussion to address these points!

## Verified client

To further incentivize the storage of "useful" data over simple [capacity commitments](#capacity-commitment), [storage miners](#storage-miner) have the additional opportunity to compete for special [deals](#deal) offered by [verified clients](#verified-client). Such clients are certified with respect to their intent to offer deals involving the storage of meaningful data, and the power a storage miner earns for these deals is augmented by a multiplier.

## Window Proof-of-Spacetime (WindowPoSt)

> _Window Proof-of-Spacetime_ (WindowPoSt) is the the mechanism by which the commitments made by [storage miners](#storage-miner) are audited. It sees each 24-hour period broken down into a series of windows. Correspondingly, each storage miner’s set of pledged [sectors](#sector) is partitioned into subsets, one subset for each window. Within a given window, each storage miner must submit a [Proof-of-Spacetime](#proof-of-spacetime-post) for each sector in their respective subset. This requires ready access to each of the challenged sectors, and will result in a [zk-SNARK-compressed](#zero-knowledge-succinct-non-interactive-argument-of-knowledge-zk-snark) proof published to the Filecoin [blockchain](#blockchain) as a [message](#message) in a [block](#block). In this way, every sector of [pledged storage](#pledged-storage) is audited at least once in any 24-hour period, and a permanent, verifiable, and public record attesting to each storage miner’s continued commitment is kept.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Window Proof-of-Spacetime_ (WindowPoSt) is the mechanism by which the commitments made by [storage miners](#storage-miner) are audited. It sees each 24-hour period broken down into a series of windows. Correspondingly, each storage miner's set of pledged [sectors](#sector) is partitioned into subsets, one subset for each window. Within a given window, each storage miner must submit a [Proof-of-Spacetime](#proof-of-spacetime-post) for each sector in their respective subset. This requires ready access to each of the challenged sectors, and will result in a [zk-SNARK-compressed](#zero-knowledge-succinct-non-interactive-argument-of-knowledge-zk-snark) proof published to the Filecoin [blockchain](#blockchain) as a [message](#message) in a [block](#block). In this way, every sector of [pledged storage](#pledged-storage) is audited at least once in any 24-hour period, and a permanent, verifiable, and public record attesting to each storage miner's continued commitment is kept.
```

The Filecoin network expects constant availability of stored data. Failing to submit WindowPoSt for a sector will result in a [fault](#fault), and the storage miner supplying the sector will be [slashed](#slash).

## Winning Proof-of-Spacetime (WinningPoSt)

> _Winning Proof-of-Spacetime_ (WinningPoSt) is the mechanism by which [storage miners](#storage-miner) are rewarded for their contributions to the Filecoin network. At the beginning of each [epoch](#epoch), a small number of storage miners are [elected](#election) to each mine a new [block](#block). As a requirement for doing so, each miner is tasked with submitting a compressed [Proof-of-Storage](#proof-of-storage-post) for a specified [sector](#sector). Each elected miner who successfully creates a block is granted filecoin, as well as the opportunity to charge other Filecoin participants fees to include [messages](#message) in the block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Winning Proof-of-Spacetime_ (WinningPoSt) is the mechanism by which [storage miners](#storage-miner) are rewarded for their contributions to the Filecoin network. At the beginning of each [epoch](#epoch), a small number of storage miners are [elected](#election) to each mine a new [block](#block). As a requirement for doing so, each miner is tasked with submitting a compressed [Proof-of-Storage](#proof-of-storage-post) for a specified [sector](#sector). Each elected miner who successfully creates a block is granted Filecoin, as well as the opportunity to charge other Filecoin participants fees to include [messages](#message) in the block.
```

Reviewer 3: Let's use FIL to represent the token, as proposed in #215.
